show me the top news stories
can you open Safari for me
open up google chrome
can you set a reminder for my dentists appointment tomorrow
turn off the lights please
order some Dominos for me
print that for me
email my mother about the game
can you show me the weather
set the temperature to 64
create a note that says pick up some jarritos from the store
play some Eminem
play some ambient music
give me the top trending news
create a google chrome tab for me
open up FireFox
create a reminder for my job today
call Jake
let's get some jimmy John's
turn up the temperature
message Chris that I can't make it today
can you look up Tesla
shut the blinds
open the windows
play me something good
turn on netflix
allow 10.0.0.11 to access the internet
search for bees
search for the nearest tobacco shop
remind me to get butt fucked today
shut down wifi access
grab me a jarritos out of the fridge
find a store with some waffles
open up Facebook
download google chrome
turn of my macbook
go to youtube.com
start idle
remind me to pick up some film for my camera
set an alarm for tomorrow at eleven pm
create an event birthday on may 5 2012
send an email to wpawatch@gmail.com, subject important message go fuck yourself
go to the pizza store
directions to the nearest jarritos shop
find the nearest bar
play machine music
show some images of fat cats
watch the sisterhood of traveling pizzas
activate bluetooth
turn off wifi
define pizza
define gay ass
define jake
show my appointments for tomorrow
get the results from the Viking's game last night
show some flights to Chicago leaving next Tuesday
wake me up at nine am
show me a map of Joliet
read me my emails from yesterday
flip a coin
roll some dice
tweet "fake news how sad unbelieveable CNN"
add corn dogs to my shopping list
take taquitos off my shopping list
turn on the flashlight
tell me a joke
tell me an inspirational quote
play Maroon 5
set the volume to six
Wikipedia: Toilet paper orientation
pick a number between one and 57
buy more dental floss
buy this song
ask Uber for a ride
turn on Fire TV
raise temperature to 78 degrees
read me my Kindle book
show me pictures of puppies
show me a recipe for chicken soup from AllRecipes
show me the front door camera
show me the trailer for Blade Runner 2049
Call John on speakerphone
Show me top headlines
Take a note
Note it down
Write an email to Ethan saying its been good to see you
Show me emails from Timmy
Add dentist appointment to Thursday at 3 p.m.
Schedule phone call with Lisa tomorrow at 5 a.m.
Move my dentist appointment to Friday
Remind me to call Mark at 2 p.m.
Remind me to ask about vacation time when I talk to Jenny
Remind me to take out the trash when I get home
Wake me up in an hour
Show me my alarms
Find pictures from last week
Find documents from May 2015
Find videos from yesterday
Show me a map of the area around Disneyland
Show me a map of downtown Los Angeles
Shuffle the music
Pause song
skip track
Tell me about Halo 5
Play the voice mail from Mom
Call the fire department
Call 911
Tell Garrus I am on my way
Tell Astrid I am going to the store
Read my new messages
Set the timer for 10 minutes
Take a picture
take a selfie
cellular data off
airplane mode on
airplane mode off
open Calendars
increase brightness
Adjust volume to 80 percent
Cancel my 5 p.m. appointment
Schedule a meeting with Satan tomorrow at 11:30 a.m.
Remind me to feed the dog when I get home
Remind me to remember my keys when I leave
Set an alarm for six hours from now
Show me photos from Tokyo
Show me my selfies
define ginger
define scope
define read
define bread
define gay
Search the App Store for word games
Show all PowerPoint presentations in my school folder
After this, play Wildest Dreams
Make a reservation at Baco Mercat for 7 p.m.
Find a table for six in San Francisco tonight
Pay Joe 10 dollars with Square Cash
show me all unread emails from my boss
Open Messages and text my wife
Disconnect from the current Wi-Fi network in Settings
Scan for Bluetooth devices in Settings
Make my phone visible to other devices in Settings
Show me my data usage in Settings
Turn on data limit
Turn on mobile hotspot in Settings
Change sound mode to vibrate
Turn on Do Not Disturb
Show me Notification settings for Dance Dance Revolution
Download the CNET app from the Play Store
Take a screenshot and share it
Play music
Stop the music
Play next song
Start this song over
Set sleep timer for 15 minutes
Show new releases
Play rap radio station in Pandora
Open Coinbase in split-screen view
"Show my recent apps
Close allpoint
Close all recent apps
Open this app as a pop-up
Switch windows
Real all notifications in notification panel
Read all angry birds notifications in notification panel
Read the latest notification in notification panel
Show me all notifications
Change the camera mode to portrait
Take a picture
Take a selfie
Set the timer for the rear camera to 10 seconds
Apply an effect
order me a Domino's pizza
broadcast breakfast is ready
add dishwasher tablets to my shopping list
tell me something interesting
talk to Product Hunt
call Amy
call the Brockley Barge
hang up
redial
turn on bedroom light
set the kitchen lights to 50
dim the living room lights
brighten the office lamp
turn the living room lights to blue
play Honest Trailers on Chromecast
play Mudbound on Netflix
play House of Cards on TV
set the heating to 22 degrees
raise the temperature three degrees
turn on all the switches
read my book on lounge speaker
lock the front door
remind me to take the charity clothes out tomorrow at 8am
remember that I left the spare keys in the dish in the kitchen
delete my reminder to take the charity clothes out tomorrow
tell me what my next task is with to do list
set a timer for 10 minutes
set a pizza timer for 12 minutes
set an alarm for 8.30 tomorrow morning
snooze alarm
cancel my alarm for 830
Open Microsoft.com
Show me top headlines
Show me latest news
Show me tech news
Show me Apple stock
Show me dollar exchange rate
Create Shopping note
Create Shopping note: Buy 2 gallons of milk
Take a note
Draft a note
Write a note
Translate Hello to Spanish
Translate Where is the near bar to German
Find document called Windows 10
Search the web for Microsoft
Show me Italians restaurants in New York
Show me Chinese restaurants near me
Find food places near me
Find restaurants near me
Find bars near me
Remind me to ask for vacation time next time I talk to Kevin
Send text to John: I'll be late for dinner tonight
Send email to Claudia: I quit! Just kidding. See you later tonight
Send email to John and Claudia: How is the project coming along
Get me directions to Port Authority
Take me to 822 Meadow Ridge Lane New Lenox Illinois
Set a reminder for Monday May 5th for ISP Orientation
Insert a new paragraph
New paragraph, Insert sentence, Add new para, Add paragraph, New line
Turn on listening mode
Start dictation
Start listening
Wake up
Begin dictation
Microphone on
Turn off listening mode
Go to sleep
Stop listening
Microphone off
End dictation
Delete the typed text
Clear everything
Delete all text
Remove everything
Copy text to clipboard
Copy to Clipboard
Hail a taxi
Order food delivery
Buy movie tickets
Customize and order a pair of Nikes
Send an order to the nearest Starbucks
Track daily fitness progress
Shop Burberry’s latest collection
Book doctor’s appointments
Host a business conference call
Pay my water bill
order me a sandwich
take 10 screenshots
cancel
center all windows
clear clipboard
save imsge from clipboard
close cd tray
close dvd tray
disable screensaver
empty recycle bin
enable screensaver
hide takbar clock
hide desktop
hide internet explorer
hide title of my computer
hide system tray
mouse left click
mouse right click
open screensaver
open screenshot
show me the screenshot
open screenshot folder
open cd tray
open dvd tray
restart explorer
restart windows explorer
restart file browser
take a screenshot
show taskbar clock
show desktop
shoe internet explorer
show title of my computer
show system tray
read the text in clipboard
edit my schedule
edit my to do list
make internet explorer transparent
mute volume
unmute volume
volume 10%
volume 20%
volume 25%
volume 30%
volume 40%
volume 50%
volume 60%
volume 70%
volume 75%
volume 80%
volume 90%
volume 100%
increase volume
decrease volume
increase volume by 5
decrease volume by 5
brightness 0%
brightness 10%
brightness 20%
brightness 30%
brightness 40%
brightness 50%
brightness 60%
brightness 70%
brightness 80%
brightness 90%
brightness 100%
move window
to the left
to the right
upwards
downwards
stop moving
change resolution to 800 by 600
change resolution to 1024 by 720
change resolution to 1024 by 768
change resolution to 1280 by 720
change resolution to 1280 by 768
change resolution to 1280 by 800
change resolution to 1360 by 768
change resolution to 1600 by 900
change resolution to 1920 by 1080
change resolution to 2560 by 1080
lock the screen
Play music
Play a random song
You decide
Play
Pause
Turn Shuffle On
Turn Shuffle Off
Next Song
Previous Song
Fast Forward
Stop Music
Turn Up
Turn Down
Mute
Unmute
Fullscreen
Exit Fullscreen
Play video
Switch Window
Close window
Come back
Show default commands
Show shell commands
Show web commands
Show social commands
Show Music Library
Show Video Library
Show Email List
Show listbox
Hide listbox
Shutdown
Log off
Restart
add custom commands
I want to add a custom command
I want to add a command
Update commands
Set the alarm
Clear the alarm Stop listening
Come Back Online
Refresh libraries
Change video directory
Change music directory
Check for new emails
Read the email
Open the email
Next email
Previous email
Clear email list
Change Language
Check for new updates
Search file awesome
Search folder music
Open notepad
Open task manager
Open my computer
Open control panel
Open network connections
Open system information
Open mouse properties
Open Facebook
Open E drive
Set alarm at 7:30 am
Remind me to visit the doctor on 15th August at 11 am
Maximize Window
Minimize Window
Close Window
Switch to notepad
Scroll down
Scroll up
Close notepad
Remind me to buy milk when I leave home
Remind me to call Robert when I get home
When I arrive at the office, remind me of my children being at school
When I enter home, remind me to turn on the lights
Remind me to find me keys when exit home
Remind me to quit my job when I arrive at the office
Open front door
Close garage
Lock front door
Unlock shed lock
Secure main door
Unsecure back door
Make all lights red
Turn all lights green
All lights purple
Accessibility Settings
Turn on Closed Captioning
Turn on Voice Guidance
Turn on video description
Show me movies about vampires
select a device to use
Select Device
Change Phone
delete a device in use
Delete Device
list devices that are paired to the system
List Devices
play your CD
Play CD
play a device through your auxiliary input
Play Front Aux
Play Aux
play device connected through USB Port
Play USB
play a device through Bluetooth Audio
Play Bluetooth Audio
play a specific song
despacito by pitbul
play music on a connected device by artist
play music on a connected device by album
"Play Album The Slim Shady LP
play specific album
play music on a connected device by genre
Play Genre rap
shuffle your music on a connected device
Shuffle On
turn off shuffle
Shuffle Off
turn to AM
Tune AM
turn to FM
Tune FM Radio
Tune FM
tune to a specific AM/FM Station
tune to XM Radio
Tune XM Radio
Tune XM
tune to specific SM station
"une XM ESPN
XM shade 45"
tune to an internet application station name
Tune Stitcher
Dial Mike
Call Wallace
redial
Redial Last Number
clear an action
Clear
clear all actions
Clear All
call using digits
Digit Dial
call or dial a number
Call or Dial 8159557459
call a specific contact
Dial kelly mobile
call a specific name
pair your device
Pair Android
Connect computer
Pair Device iPhone
Next
Next episode
Previous
Previous song
Play
Resume
Pause
Stop
Start Kodi
Start device
Search for movie Avatar
Search the artist Toto
Synchronise all
Synchronise movies
Prepare yourself for the Arrival
Volume up
volume up by 30 percent
Set the volume to 50
Volume down
volume down to 10
Mute
Unmute
sound on
Subtitles on
Disable subtitles
Next subtitle
Play Avatar
Play the movie avatar
Watch a horror movie
Watch a Comedy
Play a random movie
Resume last movie
Resume Avatar
Play the last Big Band Theory
Play next Arrow
Play episode 3 season 4 of arrow
play an episode from Big Band Theory
Resume last show
resume last episode
Play music
play random song
Play some Jazz
Play the album Sweet Dreams
Listen to Kassav'
Play the song Love Me Like You Do
listen to a random artist
listen some music
I want to listen to a random genre
I want to listen to some Rock
Listen rock music
Listen to Mezzanine album
Listen to Massive Attack
Listen to the album named Mezzanine
I want to listen to the album Death Magnetic
watch the latest episode of Battlestar Galactica
watch the last Dexter
Watch the next Dexter
I want to watch the next episode of Battlestar Galactica
Watch a random movie
I want to watch a movie
Watch the movie named Die Hard
I want to watch the movie Avatar
I want to watch Avatar
watch Avatar
sync my movies
I want to synchronize my episodes
synchronize database
search for the artist Massive Attack
search a movie named Avatar
Climate control automatic
Climate control on
Climate control off
Air conditioner on
Air conditioner off
Defrost on
Defrost off
Fan speed up
Fan speed down
Fan speed 5
Temperature 60 degrees
Temperature up
Temperature down
Temperature max heat
Temperature max cool
Open Home
Show hints
Show full screen
Show Home cards about what's happening today
Show settings
Show Voice settings
Show card settings
Set all Home cards to show
Hide all Home cards
Set a Home card to show
Turn off a Home card
Show cards Lock screen settings
Set all Home cards to show on the Lock screen
Hide all Home cards on the Lock screen
Set a Home card to show on the Lock screen
Hide a Home card from the Lock screen
Show supported Home apps
Install an app from the list of Home supported apps
Show the Voice speaking style settings
Show the voice feedback settings for Voice
Show Voice feedback style settings
Show Voice wake-up settings
Turn on Read aloud in high quality for Voice
Turn off Read aloud in high quality for Voice
Show information about using Voice
Show Voice tutorials
Show Voice help
Open Calculator
Open Calculator and calculate 5 plus 10 times 4
Clear the Calculator screen
Open Calculator and show my history
Open Calculator and clear my history
Delete the last character entered
Open Calculator and show the unit converter
Open Calculator and convert 25 inches to centimeters
Open Calculator and show the unit converter
Clear all values
Delete the last character entered
Open Calendar
Open Calendar and show me March 23rd
Show me the annual calendar for this year
Show me the monthly calendar for October
Show me the weekly calendar for this week
Show me the calendar for today
Show me my tasks
Delete all my completed tasks
Open Calendar and show my weekly meeting
Find today's weekly meeting and move it to 2pm
Open Calendar and find today's shopping task, then move it to tomorrow at 7 pm
Find my weekly meeting event and change it to a task
Find my grocery shopping task and change it to an event
Find my partner meeting and show me the directions to it
Delete all of my meetings for today
Find today's weekly meeting event and delete it
Mark grocery shopping as completed
Mark grocery shopping as incomplete
Open Calendar and find today's team meeting, then edit it
Find today's grocery shopping task and edit it
Open Calendar and add an event with the title Meeting for tomorrow 7 am
Open Calendar and add a new task Make dinner for 7 pm tonight
Create an event
Create a task
Manage my calendars
Add a calendar account to Calendar
Show me the settings for Calendar
Change the first day of the week to Sunday
I want to see week numbers
I don't want to see week numbers
Hide declined events
Don't hide declined events
Turn on the 7 day weather forecast
Turn off the 7 day weather forecast
Show me the settings for the 7 day weather forecast
Turn on notifications for Calendar
Turn off notifications for Calendar
Show me the Calendar notification settings
Change the notification sound for Calendar
Remind me 30 minutes before events start
Remind me at 7 pm the day before all-day events start
Lock the time zone
Unlock the time zone
Change the time zone to New York
Show me more about Calendar
Vibrate when I get notifications
Don't vibrate when I get notifications
Turn on Request Uber reminder notifications
Turn off Request Uber reminder notifications
Contact Samsung
Share all of today's Calendar events called Meeting
Open Calendar and share the event called Meeting
Add an event from an invitation email
Show an event from an invitation email
Update the holiday calendar
Go to the lunar January 1st
Go to Manage subscriptions
Show me the list of blocked numbers
Block 1234-5678
Block David Wilson
Turn on Block unknown callers
Turn off Block unknown callers
Remove David Wilson from the blocked list
Show Quick decline messages
Add "I am busy I will call you later" to Quick decline messages
Delete "I'm busy I will call you later" from Quick decline messages
Edit Quick decline messages
Show me Answering and ending call from Call settings
Turn on Automatic answering
Turn off Automatic answering
Turn on Press Power key to end calls
Turn off Press Power key to end calls
Show Call alert settings
Turn on Vibrate when answered
Turn off Vibrate when answered
Turn on Vibrate when call ends
Turn off Vibrate when call ends
Play tones when call connects
Don't play ones when call connects
Play tones when call ends
Don't play tones when call ends
Play notification alerts during calls
Don't play notification alerts during calls
Turn on Auto record calls
Turn off Auto record calls
Show Auto record calls settings
Turn on Auto recording notification
Turn off Auto recording notification
Automatically record all calls
Automatically record calls from selected numbers
Automatically record calls from unsaved numbers
Show me the phone numbers for Auto record calls
Add 1234-5678 to the list of Auto record calls
Auto record all David Wilson's calls
Don't auto record from the number 1234-5678
Set 1234-5678 as the number for voicemail
Show me the Notification sound settings for Voicemail
Turn on Vibrate notification for Voicemail
Turn off Vibrate notification for Voicemail
Turn on Smart call
Turn off Smart call
Show me the Smart call settings
Turn on Share name and number for Smart call
Turn off Share name and number for Smart call
Turn on Hide contacts without numbers
Turn off Hide contacts without numbers
Set Roaming assistance to Auto select country
Set Roaming assistance to Always call roaming country
Set Roaming assistance to Ask for each call
Show me the Voice call forwarding settings
Show me the Video call forwarding settings
Show me the Call forwarding settings
Show me the Voice call barring settings
Show me the Video call barring settings
Show me the Call barring settings
Turn on Call waiting
Turn off Call waiting
Show me the Fixed dialing numbers
Set to TTY full mode
Set to TTY HCO mode
Set to TTY VCO mode
Turn off TTY mode
Turn on Hearing aids
Turn off Hearing aids
Show me the Call waiting settings
Decline and send a text
Accept the voice call
Decline
Accept
Show me Call settings
Turn on Show caller information
Turn off Show caller information
Show me the Ringtones settings
Turn on Vibrate while ringing
Turn off Vibrate while ringing
Turn on Dialing keypad tone
Turn off Dialing keypad tone
Turn on Add reminder
Turn off Add reminder
Call 911
Delete David Wilson from Emergency contacts
Turn on Search for places nearby
Turn off Search for places nearby
Turn on Show calls in pop-up
Turn off Show calls in pop-up
Show the Search for places nearby settings
Set the Show my caller ID settings to Network default
Show my number for outgoing calls
Hide my number for outgoint calls
Accept the call with speaker
Show me the Mobile networks settings
Show me the Access Point Names settings
Turn on Data roaming
Turn off Data roaming
Show me the current country settings
Show me the Assisted dialing settings
Turn on Asisted dialing
Turn off Asisted dialing
Turn on Auto retry
Turn off Auto retry
Turn on Voice privacy
Turn off Voice privacy
Show Video call settings
Turn on Video call settings
Turn off Video call settings
Turn on Wi-Fi call
Turn off Wi-Fi call
Show Voice call forwarding settings
Turn on Outgoing call settings within US
Turn off Outgoing call settings within US
Show International call settings
Show me Outgoing call settings withint US
Show me Advanced calling
Activate Advance calling
Change the Advanced calling settings
Turn on Advanced calling
Turn off Advanced calling
Set the Wi-Fi calls settings in Advanced calling
Open the Wi-Fi calls settings in Advanced calling
Turn on Wi-Fi calls
Turn off Wi-Fi calls
Show me activation of Wi-Fi calling
Go to the Wi-Fi calls settings
Turn on Wi-Fi calling
Turn off Wi-Fi calling
Show me the settings screen for Wi-Fi calling
Turn on Wi-Fi calling
Turn off Wi-Fi calling
Show me the settings for DTMF tones
Show the settings for notifications during calls
Show me the setting for RTT
Show me the settings for sound quality of calls
Show me the block list of Showme
Turn on Block all for Showme
Turn off Block all for Showme
Show me the settings for Block outgoing international calls
Turn on Block outgoing international calls
Turn off Block outgoing international calls
Turn on Incoming international calls
Turn off Incoming international calls
Turn on Notifications for International calls
Turn off Notifications for International calls
Turn on In-call sound EQ
Turn off In-call sound EQ
Show me the setting for Inbox
Turn on Auto switch to voice call
Turn off Auto switch to voice call
Turn on Speaker on during video calls
Turn on Speaker off during video calls
Show me the settings for Calling mode
Turn on HD Voice
Turn off HD Voice
Show me the settings for Instant lettering
Turn on Voice call protection
Turn off Voice call protection
Show me the pop-up for Video call quality info
Don't show me the pop-up for Video call quality info
Show me the Network status indicator
Show me the Emergency numbers
Call 911
Add David Wilson to Emergency contacts
Remove David Wilson from Emergency contacts
Show me group voice call
Show me group video call
Show the Phone number locator
Turn on Phone number locator
Turn off Phone number locator
Update Phone number locator
Set Auto update hone number locator
Turn on update for Phone number locator only on WLAN
Turn off update for Phone number locator only on WLAN
Show the IVR call screen menu
Turn on IVR
Turn off IVR
Turn on Update IVR call DB
Turn off Update IVR call DB
Turn on Mute first ring
Turn off Mute first ring
Show the IP call number list
Set IP call number
Add a phone number to the IP call number list
Delete a phone number from the IP call number list
Show Black list
Show White list
Show Quick decline messages
Add a quick decline message
Delete a quick decline message
Edit a quick decline message
Show the Call blocking settings
Show the outgoing call settings
Change the phone number for outgoing call
Add honggiildong for Showme
Show templates for PhotoRing messages
Turn on the speaker
Show me the service provider
Open Camera.
Change camera mode to panorama.
Take a picture in panorama mode.
Take a picture.
Record a video.
Turn on front camera.
Turn on flash.
Turn on HDR.
Show me pictures
Turn on Motion photo.
Turn off Motion photo.
Turn on Location tag.
Turn off Location tag.
Apply effect.
Apply deep filter.
Apply black and white filter.
Select a mask sticker.
Select a stamp sticker.
Download effects.
Download modes.
Add a shortcut for camera mode on the Home screen.
Change the picture size of the rear camera to 1 to 1.
Turn on Save RAW and JPEG files for the rear camera.
Turn off Save RAW and JPEG files for the rear camera.
Change the video size of the rear camera to UHD.
Turn on Tracking AF for the rear camera.
Turn off Tracking AF for the rear camera.
Turn on Shape correction for the rear camera.
Turn off Shape correction for the rear camera.
Change the picture size of the front camera to 1 to 1.
Change the video size of the front camera to HD.
Turn on Save pictures as previewed for the front camera.
Turn off Save pictures as previewed for the front camera.
Turn on Tap screen to take pictures for the front camera.
Turn off Tap screen to take pictures for the front camera.
Turn on Show palm to take pictures for the front camera.
Turn off Show palm to take pictures for the front camera.
Turn on Tap heart rate sensor to take pictures for the front camera.
Turn off Tap heart rate sensor to take pictures for the front camera.
Turn on Video stabilization.
Turn off Video stabilization.
Change Grid lines to 3 by 3.
Turn on Review pictures.
Turn off Review pictures.
Turn on Quick launch.
Turn off Quick launch.
Turn on Voice control.
Turn off Voice control.
Set Volume key function to Record video.
Reset in Camera settings.
Go to Contact us.
Take a picture and share it.
Change the strength for the Classic filter.
Change the vignette effect for Classic filter.
Show information about camera modes.
Turn on Motion panorama of Panorama mode.
Turn off Motion panorama of Panorama mode.
Select four times the speed for Hyperlapse mode.
Set the metering of Pro mode to Matrix.
Set the AF area of Pro mode to Center.
Adjust ISO of Pro mode to 200.
Adjust the shutter speed of Pro mode.
Adjust the exposure value of Pro mode to 1.
Change the color effect of Pro mode to Vivid.
Change the color effect of Pro mode.
Reset the color effect in Pro mode.
Change the white balance of Pro mode to daylight.
Set the focus of Pro mode to Auto.
Adjust the color tone of Food mode.
Turn on Radial blur of Food mode.
Turn off Radial blur of Food mode.
Change the Skin tone of Self mode to level 3.
Change the Spotlight level of Selfie mode to 5.
Change the Spotlight direction to Right.
Change the Slim face level of Selfie mode to 4.
Change the Large eyes level of Selfie mode to 2.
Turn on Shape correction of Selfie mode.
Turn off Shape correction of Selfie mode.
Turn on Motion wide-angle selfie of Wide selfie mode.
Turn off Motion wide-angle selfie of Wide selfie mode.
Turn on Floating Camera button.
Turn off Floating Camera button.
Save pictures taken with the camera in the interanl storage.
Save pictures taken with the camera on the SD card.
Turn on Shutter sound.
Turn off Shutter sound.
Go to Help.
Turn off flash.
Turn on Auto flash.
Turn off HDR.
Turn on Auto HDR.
Turn off Grid lines.
Select 10 seconds for Timer in rear camera settings.
Select 2 seconds for Timer and turn on Take 3 shots in rear camera settings
Turn off Timer in rear camera settings.
Select 2 seconds for Timer and turn off Take 3 shots in rear camera settings.
Open Camera settings.
Change Ways to take pictures in front camera settings.
Edit Camera modes.
Remove the applied effect.
Change the value of Anti-fog mode to 7.
Turn on Detect QR codes from Auto mode.
Turn off Detect QR codes from Auto mode.
Change filters to watermarks in Auto mode.
Change the WeChat video size to FHD for the rear camera.
Change the WeChat video size to FHD for the front camera.
Record a video with WeChat video.
Select 10 seconds for Timer and take a picture.
Turn off Timer and take a picture.
Change the picture size to 1 to 1 and take a picture.
Turn on flash and take a picture.
Turn off flash and take a picture.
Turn on Auto flash and take a picture.
Turn on HDR and take a picture.
Turn off HDR and take a picture.
Turn on Auto HDR and take a picture.
Show me a list of the alarms
Turn on the 6 o'clock alarm
Turn off the 6 o'clock alarm
Set an alarm for tomorrow at 6 am
Change my 7 am alarm to 6:30 am
Delete all of my alarms
Dismiss my snoozed alarm
Dismiss the alarm
Snooze the alarm
Show me the World clock list
Remove all of the cities from the World clock
Update the weather information on the World clock
Turn on weather on the World clock
Turn off weather on the World clock
Show me the weather settings for the World clock
Change the temperature to Celsius in the World clock
Add London to my World clock
Look for San Jose in the World clock
Open the stopwatch
Start the stopwatch
Pause the stopwatch
Resume the stopwatch
Reset the stopwatch
Record the current time on the stopwatch
Copy the lap times from the stopwatch
Show the timer
Set a timer for 5 minutes
Pause the timer
Resume the timer
Cancel the timer
Restart the timer
Restart the timer
Open the Time zone converter in the World clock
Convert 6 pm Seoul time to New York time
Add a new preset timer to the Clock called soft-boiled eggs and make it 7 minutes
Delete the preset timer in the Clock called soft-boiled eggs
Rename the soft-boiled eggs preset timer in Clock to hard-boiled eggs
Add Rome to the Time zone convertor
Set an alarm for tomorrow at 6:30 am
Change my 7 am alarm to 6:30 am
Reset the time of the Time zone convertor
Show me the local time in New York
Open the Contact us page
Show me the About page
Update the Clock app
Show me the Open source license for the Clock
Change the alarm tone to Coffee
Change the snooze interval to 30 minutes
Change the vibration to Off-beat
Show most used contacts.
Create a new contact as David with the number 1234567.
Delete all contacts.
Share all contacts.
Move all contacts to Secure folder.
Move all contacts to Knox.
Show me the profile updates.
Add a new contact by scanning a business card.
Go to Contact us.
Start it.
I want to share my profile later.
Tell me how many contacts are saved.
Switch to take selfies.
I want to pick a ringtone.
I want to pick a message tone
I want to pick a vibration pattern.
Turn on Camera to take a profile picture.
Delete my profile picture.
Pick a profile picture from Gallery.
Take a profile picture.
Apply effect to the profile picture.
Set the first default image as a profile picture.
Select all contacts except me.
Select all contacts.
Delete the selected contacts.
Share the selected contacts.
Show me the selected contacts page.
Move the selected contacts to Secure folder.
Move the selected contacts to Knox.
Deselect all contacts.
Deselect checked contacts.
Swipe to the right.
Show My profile.
Edit my name to David.
Share my contacts as VCF files.
Turn on Profile sharing.
Turn off Profile sharing.
Set to share My profile with favorites.
Share my birthday.
Don't share my birthday.
Show my registered info for My profile.
Back up profile.
Change my status message to "Busy".
Call my office number.
Send a message to my office number.
Show My profile updates.
Send an email to my Gmail account.
Scan a business card and update My profile.
Set default number for My profile.
Show my house on the map.
Open my website.
Delete my first update.
Delete all my updates.
Share my first updates.
Share all my updates.
Set my first update as default.
Take my profile picture.
Delete my profile picture.
Switch to rear camera.
I want to pick a picture from Gallery for my profile.
Take a profile picture.
Apply effect to my profile picture.
Set default image as my profile picture.
Delete my profile status.
Set my profile sharing.
Search David.
Delete all search results by the name of David.
Share all search results by the name of David as VCF.
Call David.
Video call David.
Text David.
Show David's contact information.
Add the phone number 1234567 to David's contact.
Link David's contact to Jane's.
Show all contacts linked with David.
Unlink all contacts linked with David.
Set the default number for David.
Block David.
Unblock David.
Delete David.
Share David's contact.
Add David to favorites.
Remove David from favorites.
Move all searched contacts by the name of David to Secure folder.
Move all searched contacts by the name of David to Knox.
Send an email to David's Gmail.
Show profile updates for David.
Call David using Skype.
Video call David using Skype.
Message David using Skype.
Show David's LinkedIn profile.
Call David's home.
Video call David's home.
Message David's home.
Scan a business card and edit David's contact.
Delete all search history.
Show David's home on the map.
Open David's website.
Allow to access Gallery.
I want to select a ringtone.
I want to select a message tone.
I want to select a vibration pattern.
Take a new profile picture for David.
Delete the profile picture of David.
Switch to front camera.
Select a profile picture from Gallery.
Take a profile picture.
Apply effect to the profile picture.
Set default image as profile picture.
Move David's contact to Secure folder.
Move David's contact to Knox.
Show call history of David.
Delete the first call.
Delete all call history.
Select calls.
Delete selected calls.
Show search results.
Move David's contact information to Google account.
Call this contact's number.
Video call this contact's number.
Send a message to this contact.
Show this contact's detail information.
Give David a sticker call.
Give this contact a sticker call.
Create a group named Friends and add David to the group.
Show Friends group.
Search David in the Friends group.
Add David to the Friends group.
Delete Friends from groups.
Send a message to the members of Friends.
Send an email to the members of Friends.
Delete all contacts from Friends.
Delete David from Friends.
Change the ringtone.
Change the ringtone.
Call this contact's number.
Video call this contact's number.
Send a message to this contact.
Show this contact's detail information.
Call this contact's number.
Video call this contact's number.
Send a message to this contact.
Show this contact's detail information.
Show the settings page.
Change the settings to show all contacts.
Sort by last name.
Show in order of last, first name.
Turn on to show most frequently used contacts.
Turn off to show most frequently used contacts.
Change the settings to share multiple contacts as a single file.
Show me the service numbers.
Show me Manage contacts.
Merge all contacts with the same information.
Import on my phone to Google account.
Import on my SIM card to Google account.
Export all to SD card.
Export all to SIM card.
Export contacts from my phone to Google account.
Turn on Google account sync.
Turn off Google account sync.
Sync contacts.
Set Google account as the default storage location.
Show the latest version.
Add an account to the default storage location.
Add an account to sync.
Import James's contacts from SIM card to Google account .
Export James's contacts to the SIM card.
Go to Verizon Cloud.
Connect to David's voicemail.
Sync David's contact with the carrier.
Add 1234567 to David's phone numbers.
Select David's contact.
Select all contacts searched by the name of David.
Select all contacts including David.
Set David photo ID with this photo.
Show me the emergency medical information in Contacts.
Create a new contact as David with the number 1234567 and add it to the SOS message recipient list.
Add David's contact from Contacts to the SOS message recipient list.
Open the Contacts
Make an IP call to David's house.
Show David's QR code.
Add David's home number to the black list.
Add David's home number to the white list.
Open the Email app
Search for emails from David
Search for the first email from David and open it
Search for all of the emails from David and delete them
Search for all of the emails from David and move them to the trash
Search for all of the emails from David and mark them as important
Search for all of the emails from David and mark them as not important
Search for all of the emails from David and flag them
Search for all of the emails from David and mark them as complete
Search for all of the emails from David and mark them as read
Search for all of the emails from David and mark them as unread
Search for all of the emails from David and mark them as spam
Search for all of the emails from David and remove them from the Spam folder
Search for all the emails from David and unflag them
Delete the first email in my inbox
Mark the first email in my inbox as important
Mark the first email in my inbox as not important
Flag the first email in my inbox
Unflag the first email in my inbox
Mark the first email in my inbox as completed
Mark the first email in my inbox as read
Mark the first email in my inbox as unread
Restore the last email I deleted
Add David to my VIPs in Email
Delete David from my VIPs in Email
Select all of the VIPs in the VIP list in Email
Search my emails
Show me the first email in my inbox
Edit an email in my inbox
Select the first email in my inbox
Show me my inbox
Show me my inbox for Gmail
Sort the emails in my Gmail inbox by date received
Refresh the inbox for my Gmail account
Create a new folder named David for my Gmail account
Show me the first email in my inbox
Show me the next email
Delete this email
Show me the recipient info for this email
Hide the recipient info for this email
Save this email as a file
Mark this email as unread
Mark this email as important
Mark this email as not important
Flag this email
Remove the flag from this email
Mark this email as completed
Mark this email as spam
Mark this sender as a VIP
Remove this sender from my VIP list
Go back to my inbox
Print this email
Show the attachments for this email
Hide the attachments for this email
Download the first attachment from this email
Open the first attachment from this email
Open the first email in this thread
Move this email to my inbox
Remind me about this email in an hour
Cancel the reminder for this email
Add a new event for this email
Open the email composer
Open the email composer to reply to this email
Open Contacts and choose David as the recipient for an email
Open a new email and add a picture to it from Gallery
Open a new email and attach a document
Compose an email that says Hi, David and send it to David
Reply to this email
Send this email
Save this email in Drafts
Attach my location to this email
Set the priority of this email to High
Show the Rich text toolbar
Hide the Rich text toolbar
Discard this email
Show the Cc and Bcc fields
Hide the Cc and Bcc fields
Turn on Include previous recipients
Turn off Include previous recipients
Turn on Include previous messages
Turn off Include previous messages
Use my Gmail account to send this email
Change my current location
Cancel the location change
Select this location
Search for David and add him to the recipients
Undo the last action
Redo the last action
Change the font size
Turn on bold font
Turn off bold font
Turn on italic font
Turn off italic font
Turn on underline
Turn off underline
Change the font color
Change the font background color
Turn on numbered list
Turn off numbered list
Turn on bulleted list
Turn off bullet list
Indent the text
Outdent the text
Open the first attachment on this email
Delete the first attachment from this email
Show the Group tab
Select the first contact in the list
Deselect the first contact
Select this contact
Show me my email settings
Set Gmail as the default account
Edit the emails in my inbox
Set the inbox view in Email to Standard
Set the inbox view in Email to Conversation
Turn on Auto fit content
Turn off Auto fit content
Turn on Notifications
Turn off Notifications
Turn on VIP notifications
Turn off VIP notifications
Turn on Notifications for my Gmail account
Turn off Notifications for my Gmail account
Change the notification sound for VIPs
Turn on Vibrate for VIP notifications
Turn off Vibrate for VIP notifications
Change the notification sound for my Gmail account
Turn on Vibrate for notifications from my Gmail account
Turn off Vibrate for notifications from my Gmail account
Delete all of the spam addresses
Turn on Split view mode
Turn off Split view mode
Turn on Confirm deletions
Turn off Confirm deletions
Turn on Refresh folders
Turn off Refresh folders
Show the version info for the Email app
Update the Email app
Add new account
Open Contact Us
Set up my Gmail account
Remove my Gmail account
Turn off sync for my Gmail account
Turn on sync for my Gmail account
Rename my Gmail account "David"
Change the name that appears at the bottom of my emails to "David"
Always Cc me when I send emails from my Gmail account
Always Bcc me when I send emails from my Gmail account
Don't Cc or Bcc me when I send emails from my Gmail account
Stop adding my signature when I send emails from my Gmail account
Add my signature when I send emails from my Gmail account
Turn off Show images in the Gmail account settings
Turn on Show images in the Gmail account settings
Turn off Auto download attachments for the Gmail account settings
Turn on Auto download attachments for the Gmail account settings
Show me the Sync schedule settings for the Gmail account
Set the Sync schedule to Auto for my Gmail account
Set the Sync schedule while roaming to Manual for the Gmail account
Set the Sync schedule while roaming to Use sync schedule above for the Gmail account
Turn off the peak schedule for my Gmail account
Turn on the peak schedule for my Gmail account
Set the peak schedule for my Gmail account to every 15 minutes
Set the sync period for my Gmail account to 1 month
Set the number of emails to load for my Gmail account to All
Set the retrieval size limit for my Gmail account to No limit
Set the retrieval size limit while roaming to No limit for my Gmail account
Go to the Out of office settings for my Gmail account
Turn off my Out of office reply for my Gmail account
Turn on my Out of office reply for my Gmail account
Show me the Folder sync settings for my Gmail account
Turn off Sync contacts for my Gmail account
Turn on Sync contacts for my Gmail account
Turn off Sync events for my Gmail account
Turn on Sync events for my Gmail account
Turn off Sync tasks for my Gmail account
Turn on Sync tasks for my Gmail account
Turn off Sync messages for my Gmail account
Turn on Sync messages for my Gmail account
Show me the Server settings for my Gmail account
Write an email with an invitation to a calendar event
Share this image with David by email
Share this image with David by email
Post a picture
Post a picture with the caption Birthday party
Post I miss you
Open Facebook
Share a picture on Facebook with the caption Birthday party
Show me my notifications
Search for New York
Post I miss you on David Wilson's timeline
Find pictures taken in New York
Share pictures taken in New York
Delete pictures taken in New York
Copy pictures taken this week to the Travel album
Copy pictures taken at Christmas to a new album
Move pictures taken in New York to the Travel album
Find pictures taken in New York and move them to a new album
Show me the most recent picture taken in New York
Add the most recent picture taken in New York to Favorites
Remove the most recent picture taken in New York from Favorites
Auto adjust the most recent picture taken in New York
Remove the auto adjust effects from the most recent picture taken in New York
Edit the most recent picture taken in New York
Rotate the most recent picture taken in New York to the right
Show information about the most recent picture taken in New York
Edit information about the most recent picture taken in New York
Change the location of the most recent picture to Los Angeles
Delete the location information from the most recent picture
Change the name of the most recent picture to New Year
Delete the category information from the most recent picture taken in New York
Show a slideshow of pictures taken yesterday
Set the most recent picture taken in New York as David's contact picture
Set the most recent picture taken in New York as my Home screen wallpaper
Move the most recent picture taken in New York to Knox
Move the most recent picture taken in New York to Secure Folder
Set the most recent picture taken in New York as an Always On Display image
Print the most recent picture taken in New York
Play the most recent video recorded in New York
Edit the most recent video recorded in New York
Show me the most recent burst shot taken in New York
delete the best shot from the most recent burst shot taken in New York
Share the best shot from the most recent burst shot taken in New York
Make an animation from the most recent burst shot taken in New York
Show me the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Capture an image from the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Change the default view to Front for the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Turn on/off Motion view for the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Reset the viewer for the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Change the view mode to Round View for the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Edit the most recent 360 picture taken in New York
Edit the most recent 360 video recorded in New York
Turn off Vision for the most recent picture taken in New York
Use Vision on the most recent picture taken in New York
Add the tag Travel to all pictures taken in New York
Go to the URL associated with the most recent screenshot with the Halloween tag
Delete all the tags from the most recent picture taken in New York
Open the Map view of the most recent picture taken in New York
Delete my search history
Delete the most recent picture in the Business cards category
Download the most recent picture taken in New York
Select all pictures taken in New York
Expand the Location card
Collapse the Location card
Delete the URL from the most recent screenshot with the Halloween tag
Add pictures taken in New York to the Travel story
Show pictures
Show me the most recent picture
Add the most recent picture to Favorites
Remove the most recent picture from Favorites
Auto adjust the most recent picture
Remove the auto adjust effects from the most recent picture
Edit the most recent picture
Rotate the most recent picture to the right
Show the details for the most recent picture
Edit the details for the most recent picture
Change the location information of the most recent picture to New York
Delete the location information from the most recent picture
Change the name of the most recent picture to Vacation
Delete the category information from the most recent picture
Set the most recent picture as David's contact picture
Set the most recent picture as my Home screen wallpaper
Set the most recent picture as my Always On Display image
Print the most recent picture
Play the most recent video
Edit the most recent video
Show me the most recent burst shot
Save/delete the best shot from the most recent burst shot
Share the best shot from the most recent burst shot
Make an animation from the most recent burst shot
Show me the most recent 360 picture
Capture an image from the most recent 360 picture
Change the default view to Front for the most recent 360 picture
Turn on/off Motion view for the most recent 360 picture
Reset the view for the most recent 360 picture
Show the most recent 360 photo and change the view mode to round view
Edit the most recent 360 picture/video
Turn on/off Vision for the most recent picture
Use Vision on the most recent picture
Go to the URL for the most recent screenshot
Delete the tags from the most recent picture
Open the most recent picture in Map view
Delete the URL from the most recent screenshot
Share the 3 most recent pictures
Delete the 3 most recent pictures
Copy the 3 most recent pictures to the Travel album
Copy the 3 most recent pictures to a new album called Travel
Move the 3 most recent pictures to the Travel album
Move the 3 most recent pictures to a new album called Travel
Create an animation from the 3 most recent pictures
Create a collage from the 3 most recent pictures
Move the 3 most recent pictures to Knox
Move the 3 most recent pictures to Secure Folder
Add the Food tag to the 3 most recent pictures
Show me a slideshow of the 3 most recent pictures
Download the 3 most recent pictures
Select the 3 most recent pictures
Show me the list of albums
Show me the Travel album
Delete the most recent picture from the Travel album
Copy the most recent picture from the Family album to the Travel album
Copy the 3 most recent pictures from the Family album to the Travel album
Move the most recent photo from from the Travel album to the Family album
Move the most recent 3 pictures from the Travel album to a new album called Family
Share the most recent picture from the Family album
Show me an animation of the 5 most recent pictures from the Family album
Show me a collage of the 3 most recent pictures from the Family album
Move the 3 most recent pictures from the Family album to Knox
Move the 3 most recent pictures from the Family album to Secure folder
Show me the most recent picture from the Friends album
Add the most recent picture from the Friends album to Favorites
Remove the most recent picture in the Family album from Favorites
Auto adjust the most recent picture from the Family album
Remove the auto adjust effects from the most recent picture in the Family album
Edit the most recent picture in the Family album
Rotate the most recent picture in the Family album in Gallery to the left
Show the details of the most recent picture in the Family album
Edit the details of the most recent picture in the Family album
Change the location information of the most recent picture in the Travel album to New York
Delete the location information from the most recent picture in the Travel album
Change the name of the most recent picture in the Family album to Vacation
Remove the category information from the most recent picture in the Family album
Set the most recent picture in the Family album as David's contact picture
Set the most recent picture in the Travel album as my Home screen wallpaper
Set the most recent picture from the Family album as my Always On Display image
Print the most recent picture from the Family album
Play the most recent video from the Family album
Delete the Travel album
Change the name of the Travel album to Vacation
Move the Family album to Knox
Move the Travel album to Secure Folder
Edit the most recent video from the Family album
Show me the most recent burst shot from the Family album
Save the best picture from the most recent burst shot in the Family album
Delete the best picture from the most recent burst shot in the Family album
Share the best picture from the most recent burst shot in the Family album
Show me an animation of the most recent burst shot in the Family album
Show me the most recent 360 picture in the Family album
Capture an image from the most recent 360 picture in the Family album
Change the most recent 360 picture in the Family album to default view
Turn on Motion view for the most recent 360 picture in an album
Turn off Motion view for the most recent 360 picture in the Family album
Reset the view for the most recent 360 picture in the Family album
Change the view mode of the most recent 360 picture in the Family album
Edit the most recent 360 picture from the Family album
Edit the most recent 360 video from the Family album
Turn on/off Vision for the most recent picture from the Family album
Use Vision on the most recent picture from the Family album
Take me to the URL for the most recent screenshot in the Screenshot album
Add the Travel album to the Home screen
Sort the pictures in the Family album by date
Add the Food tag to the most recent picture in the Family album
Delete the Food tag from the most recent picture in the Family album
Show me the most recent picture from the Friends album in Map view
Show me a slideshow of the 5 most recent pictures from the Family album
Show me the albums with large previews
Show me the albums with small previews
Download the 3 most recent pictures from the Family album
Select the Family album
Select a picture from the Travel album
Delete the URL from the most recent screenshot in the Screenshots album
Show me my stories
Delete the Birthday story
Change the name of the Winter story to Ski trip
Show me the Ski trip story
Invite David to the Ski trip story
Add the 3 most recent pictures to the Ski trip story
Delete the 3 most recent pictures from the Ski trip story
Remove the 3 most recent pictures from the Ski trip story
Share the 3 most recent pictures from the Ski trip story
Play the Birthday story as a video
Show me an animation of the 5 most recent pictures from the Birthday album
Make a collage from the 3 most recent pictures in the Birthday album
Show me the most recent picture from the Birthday story
Add the most recent picture from the Birthday story to Favorites
Remove the most recent picture in the Birthday story from Favorites
Auto adjust the most recent picture from the Birthday story
Remove the auto adjust effects from the most recent picture in the Family story
Edit the most recent picture from the Travel story
Rotate the most recent picture from the Travel story to the right
Show me the details of the most recent picture from the Travel story
Edit the details of the most recent picture from the Travel story
Change the location information for the most recent picture from the Travel story to New York
Delete the location information from the most recent picture in the Birthday story
Change the name of the most recent picture in the Travel story to Grand Canyon
Delete the category information from the most recent picture in the Travel story
Start a slideshow from the most recent picture in the Birthday album
Set the most recent picture in the Travel story as David's contact picture
Set the most recent picture from the Travel story as my Home screen wallpaper
Move the most recent picture from the Birthday story to Knox
Move the most recent picture from the Birthday story to Secure Folder
Set the most recent picture in the Birthday story as my Always On Display image
Print the most recent picture from the Birthday story
Play the most recent video from the Travel story
Add the 3 most recent pictures to a new story called Christmas
Download all the pictures from the most recently shared story
Show me the members of the most recently shared story
Remove David from the most recently shared story
Remove the Friends group from the most recently shared story
Leave the most recently shared story
Remind me to check the Birthday story
Edit the most recent video in the Birthday story
Show me the most recent burst shot from the Birthday story
Save the best picture from the most recent burst shot in the Birthday story
Delete the best picture from a burst shot in the Birthday story
Share the most recent burst shot from the Birthday story
Show me an animation of the most recent burst shot in the Birthday story
Show me the most recent 360 picture from the Ski trip story
Capture an image from the most recent 360 picture from the Ski trip story
Change the default view for the most recent 360 picture in the Ski trip story
Turn on/off Motion view for the most recent 360 picture in the Ski trip story
Reset the viewer for the most recent 360 picture from the Ski trip story
Change the view mode of the most recent 360 picture in the Ski trip story to round view
Edit the most recent 360 picture in the Ski trip story
Edit the most recent 360 video in the Ski trip story
Turn on/off Vision for the most recent picture in the Birthday story
Use Vision on the most recent picture in the Birthday story
Show me the Birthday story in grid view
Show me the new content notifications
Go the URL of the most recent screenshot in the Screenshots story
Add/delete the Food tag to the most recent picture in the Birthday story
Show me the most recent picture from the Birthday story in Map view
Delete the oldest new content notification
Accept/decline the invitation for the most recent story
Like/unlike the most recent picture in the most recently shared story
View the comments for the most recent picture in the most recently shared story
Add/delete a comment to the most recent picture in the most recently shared story
Edit the most recent comment for the most recent picture in the most recently shared story
Download the most recent picture from the Birthday story
Select the Birthday story
Select all the pictures in the Birthday story
Delete the URL information from the most recent screenshot
Show all the shared stories
Go to the settings
Turn on/off Cloud sync
Go to the Sync settings
Go to the Trash
Delete the 3 most recent pictures from the Trash
Restore the 3 most recent pictures in the Trash
Go to the Story sharing settings
Turn on/off Story sharing
Turn on the Upload using Wi-Fi only option for Story sharing
Turn off the Upload using Wi-Fi only option for Story sharing
Notify me when new stories are shared
Don't notify me when new stories are shared
Turn on/off Auto create stories
Turn on/off Image suggestions
Go to Contact us
Turn on/off Image analysis
Go to Cloud view
Delete the 3 most recent pictures from Cloud view
Download the 3 most recent pictures from Cloud view
Save/don’t save URLs in screenshots of webpages
Notify/don’t notify me when I'm invited to stories
Notify/don’t notify me when new members are invited to stories
Notify/don’t notify me when there are new posts in stories
Notify/don’t notify me when there are new comments in stories
Notify/don’t notify me when there are new likes in stories
Show my registered information in the Story sharing settings
Add the most recent picture to the Birthday story
Add the most recent picture in the Family album to the Birthday story
Add the 3 most recent pictures to a new album called Christmas
Add the most recent picture from the Travel album to a new story called Ski trip
Change the name of this story to Christmas
Invite David
Remove this picture from this story
Resume the slideshow
Clear the search field
Clear the search field
Add this picture to Favorites
Remove this picture from Favorites
Auto adjust this picture
Remove the auto adjust effects from this picture
Share this picture
Edit this picture
Delete this picture
Rotate this picture to the right
Show the details for this picture
Edit the details for this picture
Change the location information for this picture to New York
Delete the location information from this picture
Change the name of this picture to Summer Vacation
Delete the category information from this picture
Show me a slideshow starting with this picture
Set this picture as David's contact picture
Set this picture as my Home screen wallpaper
Move this picture to Knox
Move this picture to Secure Folder
Set this picture as my Always On Display image
Print this picture
Play this video
Edit this video
Show me this burst shot
Save/delete the best picture from this burst shot
Share the best picture from this burst shot
Show me an animation of this burst shot
Open this picture in the 360 viewer
Capture an image from this 360 picture
Change the view of this 360 picture to default
Turn on/off Motion view for this 360 picture
Reset the view for this 360 picture
Change this 360 picture to round view
Edit this 360 picture/video
Turn on/off Vision for this picture
Use Vision on this picture
Go to the URL for this screenshot
Add/remove the Food tag to this picture
Show me this picture in Map view
Download this picture
Delete the URL from this screenshot
Scroll up/down
Go to the top/end of the list
Go to the next tab
Make previews bigger/smaller
Go to the next/previous picture
Zoom in/out on this picture
Go to the next/previous tab
Turn on/off split screen view
Like/unlike this picture
View comments for this picture
Add/delete a comment to this picture
Edit a comment for this picture
Turn on/off date and location tags for the most recent picture taken in Hawaii
Turn on/off date and location tags for the most recent picture
Hide/unhide the Family album
Turn on/off date and location tags for the most recent picture in the Family album
Turn on/off date and location tags for the most recent picture in the Ski trip story
Turn on/off date and location tags for this photo
Show information about Gallery
Update Gallery
Open Gmail
Compose email for John Silver with subject meeting and copy Amy Lloyd in Gmail
Open last email from John in Gmail
Search unread emails from John labeled as finance in Gmail
Reply to this email
Label this email as finance
Forward this email to Russell
Label this email as spam
Move this email to folder trips
Send this email
Star this conversation
Archive this email
Delete this email
Mark this email as unread
Show next email
Reply to all in this email
Show previous email
Unstar this conversation
Read my emails
Mute this conversation
Open the 3rd email
Delete 3rd email
Delete the 2nd email
Read emails from John with subject vacation
Filter emails that are unread
Open Google Play Music
find When we were young
play When we were young
play the top chart
show top chart
show new releases
play new releases
find artist Adele's songs
play artist Adele's songs
find Adele's 25 album
play Adele's 25 album
Shuffle the current album
show recent activity
Buy this item
add this song to library
play California playlist
play Romantic station
play TechCrunch podcast
Set a sleep timer thirty minutes
Cancel sleep timer
add current song to playlist
add the current album to the queue
show the queue
save the queue as a playlist
clear the queue
add the current album to library
add the current album to playlist
turn on Block explicit songs in radio
turn off block explicit songs in radio
turn on stream only on wifi in settings
turn off stream only on wifi
turn on download only on wifi
turn off download only on Wifi
turn on Downloaded only
turn off downloaded only
Open Google Play Music
play music
pause music
next track
previous track
dislike the content
like the content
show songs in my libraby
play songs in my library
no thanks
start radio
Post a picture on Instagram with a caption
Send a direct message on Instagram
Open Instagram
Go to Direct messages on Instagram
Search on Instagram
Share on Instagram
Open Internet
Edit the address field
Go to Google.com
Search for Tree frogs
Open Google.com and share it
Search for Tree frogs and share the results
Use Google to search for Tree frogs and share the results
Bookmark this webpage
Remove this webpage from my bookmarks
Refresh this webpage
Go to the list of available search engines
Set the default search engine to Google
Go to the previous webpage
Go to the next webpage
Go to my homepage
Show me a list of my bookmarks
Go to the top of the webpage
Switch to Reader mode
Increase the font size in Reader mode
Decrease the font size in Reader mode
Exit Reader mode
Search this webpage for the phrase Tree frogs and go to the first result
Add this webpage to my bookmarks and name it Tree frogs
Save this webpage
Add a shortcut to this webpage on the Home screen
Find a word on this webpage
Find Tree frogs on this webpage
Show me the desktop version of this webpage
Show me the mobile version of this webpage
Show me my extensions
Show me the settings
Clear the address bar
Print a webpage
Create a new bookmark folder and name it Tree frogs
Search for a saved webpage
Search my browsing history
Search for Tree frogs in my bookmarks
Search for Google in history and open the first result
Delete Google from my bookmarks
Show me my browsing history
Delete the last webpage from my browsing history
Share the first webpage in my browsing history
Show me my saved webpages
Search for New York in my saved webpages and open the first result
Search for New York in my saved webpages and delete the first result
Search for Samsung in my bookmarks and open it
Search for Samsung in my bookmarks and delete it
Show me my download history
Search for dart frog in my bookmark folders and open it
Search for New York in my saved webpages
Show me the open tabs
Open a new tab
Close all of the tabs
Show me the Secret mode security settings
Turn on Secret mode
Set my Internet homepage to Quick access
Manually set my Internet homepage
Turn on Auto fill form
Turn off Auto fill form
Show me my autofill profiles
Add an autofill profile
Add a credit card to my autofill profile
Show me the first card in my autofill profile
Turn on Manual zoom
Turn off Manual zoom
Turn on Accept cookies
Turn off Accept cookies
Turn on Suggest searches
Turn off Suggest searches
Delete all of the personal data saved
Create a password for Secret mode
Use irises to unlock Secret mode
Don't use irises to unlock Secret mode
Turn on the Status bar
Turn off the Status bar
Turn on JavaScript
Turn off JavaScript
Turn on the Pop-up blocker
Turn off the Pop-up blocker
Open the Manage website data settings
Set the text size to 90%
Increase the text size
Decrease the text size
Turn on Push notifications
Turn off Push notifications
Show me the About screen
Turn on Sync
Turn off Sync
Sync my Internet data now
Edit the items on the Quick access list
Delete Google from the Quick access list
Open Google Maps
Show Indian food near me
Explore
Show Timeline
Show Your Places
Show me how to get from San Francisco to Mountain View by car
Change the destination to Mountain View
Change destination to Oakland and start navigation
Select the first location and start navigation
Navigate to Golden Gate Bridge from Mountain view by bicycle
Open Messages
Show me the most recent message
Delete the conversation with the most recently received text
Show me notifications for the conversation with the most recently received text
I don't want to see notifications for the conversation with the most recently received text
Show me the notification settings for the conversation with the most recently received text
Pin the conversation with the most recently received text
Unpin the conversation with the most recently received text
Show me the pin settings for the conversation with the most recently received text
Show me the pictures from the conversation with the most recently received text
Save all the pictures from the conversation with the most recently received text
Call the number of the conversation with the most recently received text
Block the conversation with the most recently received text
Share the number of the conversation with the most recently received text
Save the number of the conversation with the most recently received text
Forward the most recent text to David
Share the most recent text
Delete the most recent text
Copy the most recent text
Lock the most recent text
Unlock the most recent text
Save the most recent text to SIM card 2
Show me more info on the most recent text
Unlock the most recent conversation
Report the most recent text as spam
Save all texts from the most recent conversation
Change the SIM card for the most recent conversation to SIM 2
Save the most recent text to Reminder
Save the most recent text to the SIM card
Make a slideshow in the conversation with the most recently received text
Add the subject Birthday party in the conversation with the most recently received text
Send a message in the most recent conversation at 9 AM tomorrow
Read me the most recent text
Show me my unread messages
Open Messages
Mark the text I just received as read
Show me the texts I received today
Read me the texts I received today
Search texts with the keyword David
Delete all texts and conversations with the keyword David
Send a text that I'll be late in the conversation with David
Turn on notifications for the conversation with David
Turn off notifications for the conversation with David
Open notification settings for the conversation with David
Pin the conversation with David
Unpin the conversation with David
Show me pin settings for the conversation with David
Show me pictures from the conversation with David
Save all pictures from the conversation with David
Call the number of the conversation with the keyword see you
Delete all texts from the conversation with David
Block the number from the conversation with David
Share the number of the text with see you
Save the number of the text with see you
Forward the text that says See you to David
Share the text that says See you
Delete the text that says See you
Copy the text that says See you
Lock the text that says See you
Unlock the text that says See you
Save the text that says See you to SIM 2
Show me the details of the text that says See you
Unblock the number from David's conversation
Block the number of the text that says See you
Unblock the number for the text with the keyword see you
Report the text with the keyword see you as spam
Save texts from the conversation with David
Take a picture and send it to the conversation with David
Find the conversation with David
Show me all the texts with See you
Change the SIM card for David's conversation to SIM 2
Clear the search history
Save the text that says See you to Reminder
Delete all messages that says See you
Delete all conversations that says See you
Send 3 pictures to David's conversation
Send 3 pictures from the Travel album to David's conversation
Send a meeting schedule from Calendar to David's conversation
Send all meeting schedules from Calendar to David's conversation
Send the first note to David's conversation
Send an audio file to David's conversation
Send Jane's contact info to David's conversation
Send the location New York to David's conversation
Send See you to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send 3 pictures to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send 3 pictures from the Travel album to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send a meeting schedule from Calendar to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send all meeting schedules from Calendar to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send the first note to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send an audio file to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send Jane's contact info to David's conversation using SIM 2
Send the location New York to David's conversation using SIM 2
Save the texts that says See you to my SIM
Make a slideshow in David's conversation
Make a slideshow in the conversation with the text See you
Change the subject in David's conversation to Nice to meet you
Change the subject of the conversation with See you to Nice to meet you
Send a message tomorrow at 9 AM to David's conversation
Send a text tomorrow at 9 AM to the conversation which has the keyword See you
Read me the new text from David's conversation
Forward the text I just received in David's conversation to Jane
Send an audio recording to David's conversation
Share the phone number in David's conversation
Delete all messages from David
Delete all conversations
Pin all conversation
Unpin all conversation
Save all conversation
Send See you to David
Send a fax to David
Take a photo and send a new message to David
Send 3 recent photos to David
Send 3 recent photos from the Travel album to David
Send a meeting schedule from Calendar to David
Send all meeting schedules from Calendar to David
Send the first note to David
Send an audio file to David
Send Jane's contact info to David
Send the location New York to David
Send See you to David using SIM 2
Send 3 recent photos to David using SIM 2
Send 3 recent photos from the Travel album to David using SIM 2
Send a meeting schedule from Calendar to David using SIM 2
Send all meeting schedules from Calendar to David using SIM 2
Send the first note to David using SIM 2
Send an audio file to David using SIM 2
Send Jane's contact info to David using SIM 2
Send the location New York to David using SIM 2
Send an audio recording to David
Mark all unread messages as read
Show me the drafts
Delete all message drafts
Show me the locked messages
Delete all locked messages
Turn on notifications
Turn off notifications
Show me the notification settings
Change the notification sound for SIM 2
Turn on vibration for SIM 2
Turn off vibration for SIM 2
Show me vibration settings for SIM 2
Turn on popup display for SIM 2
Turn off popup display for SIM 2
Show me popup display settings for SIM 2
Turn on preview messages for SIM 2
Turn off preview messages for SIM 2
Show me the preview message settings for SIM 2
Change the conversation background image
Add see you to quick responses
Show me the quick responses
Delete the quick responses
Show me the blocked numbers
Block David's number
Block 1234567
Show me blocked phrases
Add promotion to blocked phrases
Show me blocked messages
Delete all blocked messages
Restore all blocked messages
Use device font sizes
Don't use device font sizes
Don't use device font sizes
Set message font size to the maximum
Set message font size to the smallest
Make message font size larger
Make message font size smaller
Set message font size to 3
Turn on delivery reports
Turn off delivery reports
Show me delivery report settings
Show me messages from SIM 2
Delete all messages from SIM 2
Copy all texts from SIM 2 to the phone
Set the input mode to Unicode
Set the input mode to GSM alphabet
Set the input mode to Automatic
Show me the input mode settings
Turn on group conversation
Turn off group conversation
Show me the settings for group conversation
Turn on delivery reports for multimedia messages
Turn off delivery reports for multimedia messages
Show me delivery report settings for multimedia messages
Turn on read reports for multimedia messages
Turn off read reports for multimedia messages
Show me the read report settings for multimedia messages
Turn on auto retrieve for multimedia messages
Turn off auto retrieve for multimedia messages
Show me auto retrieve settings for multimedia messages
Turn on roaming auto retrieve for multimedia messages
Turn off roaming auto retrieve for multimedia messages
Show me the roaming auto retrieve settings for multimedia messages
Change restrictions for multimedia messages to restricted
Change restrictions for multimedia messages to warning
Change restrictions for multimedia messages to free
Show me restriction settings for multimedia messages
Turn on push messages
Turn off push messages
Show me push message settings
Always receive push messages
Ask me when receiving push messages
Don't receive push messages
Show me the settings for push messages services
Turn on cell broadcast
Turn off cell broadcast
Show me cell broadcast settings
Set cell broadcast channel to all channels for SIM 2
Set cell broadcast channel to my channel for SIM 2
Show me cell broadcast channel settings for SIM 2
Delete old texts
Don't delete old texts
Show me the settings for deleting old texts
Turn on split view
Turn off split view
Show me split view settings
Contact Samsung
Give me alerts for extreme situations
Don't give me alerts for extreme situations
Give me alerts for severe situations
Don't give me alerts for severe situations
Give me alerts for amber situations
Don't give me alerts for amber situations
Give me test messages for emergency alerts
Don't give me test messages for emergency alerts
I want to listen to the emergency alert
Remind me once of emergency alerts
Remind me every 2 minutes of emergency alerts
Remind me every 15 minutes of emergency alerts
Don't remind me of emergency alerts
Turn on vibration for emergency alerts
Turn off vibration for emergency alerts
Turn on sound for emergency alerts
Turn off sound for emergency alerts
Turn on emergency alert settings
Turn off emergency alert settings
Turn on emergency alert
Turn off emergency alert
Get information notification for emergency alerts
I don't want to get information notification for emergency alerts
Show me more about emergency messages
Turn on Auto combination
Turn off Auto combination
Set the criteria for blocked numbers to include the number
Show me the extreme alerts settings
Show me the severe alerts settings
Show me the amber alerts settings
Show me the settings for emergency alert test messages
Show me the reminder settings for emergency alerts
Show me the vibration settings for emergency alerts
Show me the sound settings for emergency alerts
Show me the emergency alert settings
Show me the settings for emergency alerts messages
Show me the settings for information notifications
Show me the settings for Auto combination
Show that I have read the message to the other person
Don't show that I have read the message to the other person
Show me the settings for Send read receipt
Automatically accept all texts without multimedia limits
Only automatically accept texts with smaller multimedia files
Show me the settings for multimedia limit
Turn on roaming auto retrieve for chats
Turn off roaming auto retrieve for chats
Show me the roaming auto retrieve settings for chats
Set the image size as best available
Let others see me typing
Don't let others see me typing
Show me the settings for share typing indications
Turn on advanced messaging
Turn off advanced messaging
Turn on the share read status
Turn off the share read status
Show me the text word count
Don't show me the text word count
Delete old messages up to 10 days
Unblock the number 1234567
Don't delete any of my old messages
Set 1234567 as the message center of SIM 2
Turn on notifications for SIM 2
Turn off notifications for SIM 2
Show me the notification settings for SIM 2
Turn on cell broadcast message for SIM 2
Turn off cell broadcast message for SIM 2
Show me the cell broadcast message settings for SIM 2
Show me how to use Messages
Restore texts
Show me the settings for AT&T Messages Backup & Sync
Turn on web preview
Turn off web preview
Show me web preview settings
Delete promotions from blocked phrases
Set Message center as 1234567
Add See you as a quick response
Show me quick responses
Delete quick responses
Show me message settings
Change the notification sound
Turn on vibration
Turn off vibration
Show me vibration settings
Show me pop-ups
Don't show me pop-ups
Show me pop-up display settings
Preview texts
Don’t preview texts
Show me preview message settings
Change the criteria for blocked numbers to start with this number
Change the criteria for blocked numbers to end with this number
Set the criteria for blocked numbers to match the exact number
Show me SIM messages
Delete all messages from SIM card
Copy all the messages from the SIM card to the phone
See all channels for cell broadcast channel
See only my channels for cell broadcast channel
Show me the settings for the cell broadcast channel
Show me About messages
Set the picture as a conversation background
Allow access to all links included
Don't allow access to all links included
Show me the settings for allowing access to all links
Reply to the latest text with See you
Take a picture
Record a video
Switch to selfie mode
Switch to rear camera
Forward to David
Report as spam
Delete
Copy
Lock
Unlock
Copy to SIM card
Write See you
Remove attachments
Change the message to See you
Forward the last text to David
Share the last text
Copy the last text
Lock the last text
Unlock the last text
Copy the last text to SIM 2
Show me more information on the last text
Save the last text to Reminder
Download
Show me the album
Save
Share
Call the person
Reply See you
Resend
Send now
Save the attachment
Play the slideshow
Show me the previous slide
Pause
Play
Show me the next slide
Reply with see you to this message
Forward this message to David
Delete
Copy
Lock
Unlock
Save attachment
Turn on notifications for the first conversation
Turn off notifications for the first conversation
Show me notification settings for the first conversation
Pin the first conversation
Unpin the first conversation
Show me pin settings for the first conversation
Show me pictures from the first conversation
Show me all pictures from the first conversation
Call the number of the first conversation
Delete all texts from the first conversation
Block the first conversation
Share the number of the first conversation
Save the number of the first conversation
Reply with See you to the first conversation
Forward to David
Report as spam
Delete
Copy
Lock
Unlock
Call the person
Reply with See you
Send it again
Send now
Add David to recipient
Add David as recipient
Open the first conversation
Attach 3 recent pictures
Attach 3 recent pictures from Travel
Attach an event schedule from Calendar
Attach all meeting schedules from Calendar
Attach the first note
Attach an audio file
Attach Jane's contact info
Attach location as New York
Save the last text to SIM
Delete the text
Show me quick responses
Make a slideshow in the first conversation
Add a subject See you in the first conversation
Set a scheduled message for 9 AM tomorrow in the first conversation
Share this image to David by messages
Share this image to David by messages
Copy messages that says See you to the SD card
Show me SD card texts
Copy texts in the SD card to my phone
Show me announcements
Show me bills from announcements
Show me orders from announcements
Show me shipping information from announcements
Delete all announcements
Pin all announcements
Unpin all announcements
Turn on announcements
Turn off announcements
Show me announcement settings
Update announcement senders only when WLAN is connected
Always update announcement senders
Don't update announcement senders
Show me the settings for Update announcement senders
Show me information cards
Don't show me information cards
Show me the settings for information cards
Start a group chat called Best friends with David and Jane
Show me the settings for sending for David's conversation
Switch David's conversation to chat mode
Switch David's conversation to SMS mode
Show me the file history for David's conversation
Leave David's conversation
Call the number of David's conversation
Rename the chat room with David and Jane to Best friends
Show me the settings for default messaging
Set default messaging to automatic
Set default messaging to message
Set default messaging to chat
Show me the settings for Including alias
Turn on including alias
Turn off including alias
Set my alias to David
Show me the settings for chat reading confirmation
Turn on chat reading confirmation
Turn off chat reading confirmation
Show me the settings for chat auto download
Turn on chat auto download
Turn off chat auto download
Show me the settings for chat roaming auto download
Turn on chat auto download when roaming
Turn off chat auto download when roaming
Show me the settings for resend undelivered chat
Resend undelivered chat through text
Don't resend undelivered chat
Always ask me before resending undelivered chat
Show me the image size settings
Set the image size as original
Set the image size as high
Set the image size as medium
Set the image size as low
Always ask me about the image size
Show me the video size settings
Set the video size as original
Resize the videos
Always ask me about the video size
Show me the next conversation
Show me the previous conversation
Next message
Previous message
Next message
Previous message
Next picture
Previous picture
Show me the contacts tab
Show me the conversation tab
Show me the conversations below
Show me the conversations above
Show me the very top conversation
Show me the very bottom conversation
Show me the contacts below
Show me the contacts above
Show me the contact at the very top
Show me the contact at the very bottom
Show me the texts below
Show me the texts above
Show me the very top text
Show me the very bottom text
Open this app as a pop-up.
Minimize this pop-up.
Maximize this pop-up.
Switch windows.
Use Snap window.
Close the Music app.
Open My Files
Find doc files
Find ABC and open it
Find ABC and share it
Find ABC and delete it
Find ABC and move it
Find ABC and copy it
Find ABC and show its details
Find the MP3 folder and open it
Find the MP3 folder and create a new folder named Albums
Find the MP3 folder and show its files in list view
Find the MP3 folder and sort it by date
Find ABC and rename it to DEF to DEF
Find ABC and add a shortcut to it on the Home screen
Find ABC and add a shortcut to it on the My Files main screen
Find the MP3 folder and zip all files in the folder
Clear recent file history
Show the Get more space screen
Show large files
Back up large files
Delete large files
Show My Files settings
Sign in to Samsung Cloud Drive
Sign out of Samsung Cloud Drive
Sign in to Google Drive
Sign out of Google Drive
Only manage cloud files using Wi-Fi
Manage cloud files using mobile data or Wi-Fi
Show hidden files
Don't show hidden files
Show large file settings
Set the size of large files
Show unused file settings
Set the unused file period to 1 month
Show the About screen
Show the Contact us screen
Show large files
Show unused files
Show duplicate files
Show Recent files
Find an MP3 file in Recent files and open it
Find an MP3 file in Recent files and share it
Find an MP3 file in Recent files and delete it
Find an MP3 file in Recent files and show its details
Open the most recently used file
Share all of the files in Recent files
Delete all of the files in Recent files
Find an MP3 file in Recent files and add a shortcut to it on the My Files main screen
Find an MP3 file in Recent files and add a shortcut to it on the Home screen
Show the details for files in Recent files
Shows files in internal storage
Create a new folder called MP# in internal storage
Change the view mode for internal storage to list view
Sort files by date in internal storage
Find ABC in internal storage and open it
Find ABC in internal storage and share it
Find ABC in internal storage and delete it
Find the ABC folder in internal storage and move it
Find ABC in internal storage and copy it
Find ABC in internal storage and shows its details
Find ABC in the MP3 folder in internal storage and rename it to DEF to DEF
Find ABC in the MP3 folder in internal storage and add a shortcut to it on the Home screen
Find ABC in the MP3 folder in internal storage and add a shortcut to it on the My Files main screen
Find the MP3 folder in internal storage and zip all of its files
Find the MP3 folder in internal storage and create a new folder called Albums inside of it
Show files on the SD card
Create a new folder on the SD card
Change the view mode for the SD card to list view
Sort files on the SD card by date
Find ABC on the SD card and open it
Find ABC on the SD card and share it
Find ABC on the SD card and delete it
Find ABC on the SD card and move it
Find ABC on the SD card and copy it
Find ABC on the SD card and show its details
Find ABC in the MP3 folder on the SD card and rename it to DEF
Find ABC in the MP3 folder on the SD card and add a shortcut to it on the Home screen
Find ABC in the MP3 folder on the SD card and add a shortcut to it on the My Files main screen
Search for the MP3 folder on the SD card and zip all files in it
Search for the MP3 folder on the SD card and create folder called Albums inside it
Show the Download category
Sort the Download category by date
Change the view mode for the Download category to list view
Share all folders in the Download category
Delete all folders from the Download category
Move files from the Download category
Copy files from the Download category
Show the details of files in the Download category
Find ABC in the Download category
Find ABC in the Download category and share it
Find ABC in the Download category and delete it
Find ABC in the Download category and move it
Find ABC in the Download category and copy it
Find ABC in the Download category and show its details it
Show Samsung Cloud Drive
Sync with Samsung Cloud Drive
Create a new folder called MP3 in Samsung Cloud Drive
Change the view mode for Samsung Cloud Drive
Change the sort order for Samsung Cloud Drive
Show the trash for Samsung Cloud Drive
Restore all files from the trash in Samsung Cloud Drive
Delete all files from the trash in Samsung Cloud Drive
Empty the trash in Samsung Cloud Drive
Find ABC in Samsung Cloud Drive and open it
Find ABC in Samsung Cloud Drive and delete it
Find ABC in Samsung Cloud Drive and move it
Find ABC in Samsung Cloud Drive and copy it
Find ABC in Samsung Cloud Drive and show its details
Find ABC in the MP3 folder in Samsung Cloud Drive and show its details
Show how much space is being used in Samsung Cloud Drive
Show Google Drive
Sync Google Drive
Create a new folder called MP3 in Google Drive
Change the view mode for Google Drive to list view
Sort files in Google Drive by date
Find ABC in Google Drive and open it
Find ABC in Google Drive and delete it
Find ABC in Google Drive and move it
Find ABC in Google Drive and copy it
Find ABC in Google Drive and show its details
Find ABC in the MP3 folder in Google Drive and rename it to DEF
Show how much space is being used in Google Drive
Manage shortcuts
Delete all shortcuts
Show files in USB storage
Create a new folder called MP3 in USB storage
Change the view mode for USB storage to list view
Sort files in USB storage by date
Select an audio file
Attach ABC
Open the first file
Share all files
Delete all files
Move all files
Copy all files
Rename the first file to ABC
Add a shortcut to the first file on the My Files main screen
Add a shortcut to the first file on the Home screen
Zip all files
Show details for all files
Open the first file
Share all files
Delete all files
Move all files
Copy all files
Rename the first file to ABC
Add a shortcut to the first file on the My Files main screen
Add a shortcut to the first file on the Home screen
Zip all files
Show details for all files
Open the first file
Delete all files
Move all files
Copy all files
Rename the first file to ABC
Show details for all files
Open the first file
Delete all files
Move all files
Copy all files
Rename the first file to ABC
Show details for all files
Clear notifications from Gmail
Show me all notifications
Show me notifications from Gmail
Open the quick panel
Change the order of the quick panel buttons
Change the quick panel size to 4 by 3
Go to Contact us for the notification panel
Close the notification panel
Open the notification from Gmail
Show the brightness control
Hide the brightness control
Read me all the notifications
Read me the notification from Gmail
Read me the latest notification
Search recent contact history for David
Show me the recent history that I searched
Delete search records
Call David
Video call David
Send a text to David
Delete recent call history with David .
Find numbers containing 1234 in Phone and add them to David's contact information
Add 1234567 to David
Block David
Unblock David
Show recent call history with David
Delete recent call history with David
Show David's contact information
Delete this
Share this
Move this to Secure Folder
Move this to Knox
Delete everything
Find 1234567
Find 1234567 in my recent calls
Find 1234567 in my recent calls
Find 1234567 in my recent calls
Show me the search history
Show me the search history
Show me the search history
Show me the search history
Delete the search history
Delete the search history
Delete the search history
Delete the search history
Select all
Show Recents
Call the most recent number
Video call the most recent number
Send a text to the most recent number
Show me the contact info for the most recent number
Delete the most recent number
Show missed calls
Show message history
Hide message history
Show the recorded file during the call
Show the call duration until now
Reset the total call duration
Block the last number called
Call this number
Video call this number
Text this number
Report this number
Share this number
Add the last number called as a new contact
Add the last number called to an existing contact
Delete all missed calls
Allow permissions
Select all
Open the keypad
Make a call to 1234567
Make a video call to 1234567
Send a message to 1234567
Connect to Voicemail
Call with speed dial number 2
Add David to speed dial 2
Hide.
Delete speed dial number 2
Erase the last digit
Erase everything
Add this number as David
Show me the speed dial list
Add this number to David
Add waiting time
Add a 2 second pause
Show me the Contacts tab
Contacts tab
Contacts tab
Contacts tab
Make a new contact called David with the number 1234567
Delete all contacts
Share all my contacts
Move all my contacts to Secure Folder
Move all my contacts to Knox
I want to see my profile
Select all contacts
Call David
Video call David
Text David
Show me David's contact information
Show me the Recents tab
Search for a nearby pizza place.
Search for nearby stores.
Search for nearby stores by category.
Set my location to New York.
Add the info of this place to a new contact
Call Uber
Make a toll-free call to 1234567
Call David with the message "I'm Jane".
Call David with Showme.
I want to contact Samsung.
I need help.
Show me the settings
Show me the settings
Show me the settings
Show me the settings
Add instant lettering as David and call 1234567
Find numbers that include 1234 and make an IP call
Find numbers that include 1234 and report them as spam
Find numbers that include 1234 and add them to the black list
Find the numbers that include 1234 and add them to the white list
Make an IP call to the first phone number from the Recents.
Report the first phone number from the Recents as spam
Add the first phone number from the Recents to the black list
Add the first phone number from the Recents to the white list
Make an IP call to 1234567
Add this number to David
Add this number as David
Call this number
Open the most recently used app in Multi window view
Open an app from Recents in Multi window view
Close an app in Recents
Lock an app in Recents
Move to the previous app in Recents
Move to the next app in Recents
Open the selected app from Recents in Multi window view
Close the selected app in Recents
Lock the selected app in Recents
Close all apps in Recents
Exit Recents
Open an app in Multi window view
Open Recents
Unlock an app
Unlock the selected app
Open the Reminder
Remind me to take medicine at 3 pm
Show me my most recent reminder
Show me my completed reminders
Show me pictures in the most recent reminder
Delete all of my reminders
Pin my most recent reminder to Always On Display
Change the time of the most recent reminder to 2 pm.
Show me the Shopping reminder
Sort my reminders by date modified
Remind me about this at 6 pm tomorrow
Set all of my reminders as completed
Delete all of my completed reminders
Restore all of my completed reminders
Remind me about this in 45 minutes
Change the color of my most recent reminder to blue
Show me Reminder settings
Change the background color of the Reminder app to black
Show me information
Update the Reminder
Change the Shopping reminder to 4 pm
Add my most recent picture to the most recent reminder
Add my most recent picture to the Shopping reminder
Complete the Shopping reminder
Delete the Shopping reminder
Pin the Shopping reminder to Always On Display
Restore the Shopping reminder
Change the color of the Shopping reminder to blue
Delete the image from the most recent reminder
Delete the image from the Shopping reminder
Go to Contact us
Show me the next picture
Go back to the last picture
Zoom in on this picture
Zoom out of this picture
Complete this reminder
Remove the color from the most recent reminder
Remove the color from the Shopping reminder
Delete this reminder
Restore this reminder
Save my parking location
Show me my parking reminder
Open Device maintenance.
Go to Contact us in Device maintenance.
Add an icon for Device maintenance on my Home screen.
Optimize my phone in Device maintenance.
Show me the performance modes available in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Optimized mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Optimized mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Game mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Game mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Game mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Entertainment mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Entertainment mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Entertainment mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for High performance mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on High performance mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize High performance mode in Device maintenance.
Show me storage information in Device maintenance.
Clean my phone's internal storage.
Show me the internal storage settings in Device maintenance.
Show me how much storage space is used on my phone.
Delete cached data from my phone in Device maintenance.
Show me how much memory my phone is using in Device maintenance.
Clean my phone's memory.
Show me the Device security options in Device maintenance.
Scan my phone for viruses in Device maintenance.
Turn on the auto restart.
Turn off the auto restart.
Set phone to restart automatically every Thursday.
Set the auto restart time to 5 o'clock.
Open the auto restart.
Show me the battery information in Device maintenance
Go to the App power monitor in Device maintenance
Show me how much charging time is left in Device maintenance
Show me how much battery life is left in Device maintenance.
Show my battery usage information in Device maintenance.
Turn off Power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Medium power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Medium power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Medium power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Maximum power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Maximum power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Maximum power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Optimize the power usage of my apps in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps are sleeping in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps aren't being monitored by App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps can be added to the unmonitored list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Add Samsung Members to the unmonitored app list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps can be removed from the unmonitored app list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Remove Samsung Members from the unmonitored app list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me the battery notification settings in Device maintenance.
Show me the low battery notification settings in Device maintenance.
Notify me when my battery is at 50% in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me when my battery is at 50% in Device maintenance.
Turn on all low battery notifications in Device maintenance.
Turn off all low battery notifications in Device maintenance.
Notify me about unused apps in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me about unused apps in Device maintenance.
Notify me when apps are draining my battery in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me when apps are draining my battery in Device maintenance.
Notify me when apps are unstable in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me when apps are unstable in Device maintenance.
Show me the advanced settings in Device maintenance.
Show me the sleep delay settings for unused apps in device maintenance.
Change the sleep delay for App power monitor to 5 days in Device maintenance.
Turn off App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Set the sleep delay for unused apps to the maximum in Device maintenance.
Set the sleep delay for unused apps to the minimum in Device maintenance.
Increase the sleep delay for unused apps by 1 day in Device maintenance.
Decrease the sleep delay for unused apps by 1 day in Device maintenance.
Turn on App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Put unused apps to sleep in Device maintenance.
Don't put unused apps to sleep in Device maintenance.
Turn on Fast cable charging in Device maintenance.
Turn off Fast cable charging in Device maintenance.
Turn on Fast wireless charging in Device maintenance.
Turn off Fast wireless charging in Device maintenance.
Show the battery percentage in the status bar.
Don't show the battery percentage in the status bar.
Show me battery information in Device maintenance.
Go to App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me how much charging time is left in Device maintenance.
Show me how much battery life is left in Device maintenance.
Show my battery usage information in Device maintenance.
Turn off Power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Medium power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Medium power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Medium power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Maximum power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Maximum power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Maximum power saving mode in Device maintenance.
Optimize the power usage of my apps in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps are sleeping in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps aren't being monitored by the App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps can be added to the unmonitored list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Add Samsung Members to the unmonitored app list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me which apps can be removed from the unmonitored list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Remove Samsung Members from the unmonitored app list for App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Show me the battery notification settings in Device maintenance.
Show me the low battery notification settings in Device maintenance.
Notify me when my battery is at 50% in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me when my battery is at 50% in Device maintenance.
Turn on all low battery notifications in Device maintenance.
Turn off all low battery notifications in Device maintenance.
Notify me about unused apps in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me about unused apps in Device maintenance.
Notify me when apps are draining my battery in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me when apps are draining my battery in Device maintenance.
Notify me when apps are unstable in Device maintenance.
Don't notify me when apps are unstable in Device maintenance.
Show me the advanced settings in Device maintenance.
Show me the sleep delay settings for unused apps in Device maintenance.
Change the sleep delay for App power monitor to 5 days in Device maintenance.
Turn off App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Set the sleep delay for unused apps to the maximum in Device maintenance.
Set the sleep delay for unused apps to the minimum in Device maintenance.
Increase the sleep delay for unused apps by 1 day in Device maintenance.
Decrease the sleep delay for unused apps by 1 day in Device maintenance.
Turn on the App power monitor in Device maintenance.
Put unused apps to sleep in Device maintenance.
Don't put unused apps to sleep in Device maintenance.
Turn on Fast cable charging in Device maintenance.
Turn off Fast cable charging in Device maintenance.
Turn on Fast wireless charging in Device maintenance.
Turn off Fast wireless charging in Device maintenance.
Show the battery percentage in the status bar.
Don't show the battery percentage in the status bar.
Show me the performance modes available in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Optimized mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Optimized mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Game mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Game mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Game mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for Entertainment mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on Entertainment mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize Entertainment mode in Device maintenance.
Show me the settings for High performance mode in Device maintenance.
Turn on High performance mode in Device maintenance.
Let me customize High performance mode in Device maintenance.
Show me storage information in Device maintenance.
Delete the cached data from my phone in Device maintenance.
Show me how much memory my phone is using in Device maintenance.
Open Device maintenance.
Post my most recent picture with the comment Birthday Party
Send a message to David with the text See you later
Open Tumblr
Search for Hawaii
Show messages
Share this picture on Tumblr with the comment Birthday Party
Post a message that I am on vacation
Post a recent picture with comment birthday party
Start Live and write traveling
Show notices
Show me the recent messages
Run Twitter
Send message that See you to David
Search Hawaii
Share a recent pictrue on Twitter
Show controller
Hide controller
Rotate screen
Turn on screen lock settings
Turn off screen lock settings
View the video in popup window
Share an animated GIF
Save an animated GIF
Show video in full screen
Edit this video
Delete this video
Share this video
Show video details
Hide video details
Increase screen brightness
Decrease screen brightness
Increase volume
Decrease volume
Pause video
Play video
Play the next video
Play the previous video
Make an animated GIF
Let me see this video from here again later
Move the play position forward by 10 seconds
Move the play position backward by 10 seconds
Show settings screen in Video Player app
Turn on auto play next setting
Turn off auto play next setting
Turn on play audio only setting
Turn off play audio only setting
Turn on Playback Speed settings for video
Turn off Playback Speed settings for video
Play video faster
Play video slower
Switch on subtitles
Switch off subtitles
Select subtitles for video
Show subtitle style setting screen
Apply subtitles style 1 to video
Show subtitles in the left side of the screen
Change subtitles font
Increase subtitles font size
Decrease subtitles font size
Show video player app information screen
Show the Samsung subtitles settings screen
Turn on Samsung subtitles
Turn off Samsung subtitles
Enable Samsung subtitles for videos and set them to style 1
Set Samsung subtitles alignment to left
Change the font for Samsung subtitles
Increase the Samsung subtitles font size
Decrease the Samsung subtitles font size
Turn on motion view setting
Turn off motion view setting
Reset 360 view settings
Show 360 view mode menu screen
Hide 360 view mode menu screen
Change 360 view mode to dual mode
View the video in popup window
Open Bixby Vision
Scan and edit text
Scan a product and see matching results
Search for similar images
Show nearby places in Live view
Turn on the flashlight
Turn off the flashlight
Show me my search history
Delete my search history
Turn on Book search
Turn off Book search
Turn on Place search
Turn off Place search
Turn on Image search
Turn off Image search
Turn on Wine search
Turn off Wine search
Turn on Save captured images
Turn off Save captured images
Turn on Shopping
Turn off Shopping
Turn on Auto detect language
Turn off Auto detect language
Change the language for documents to Korean
Scan a business card and save it in my contacts
Scan a QR code
Search for a product online
Search for a book
Search for a wine
Search for nearby places
Scan text and save it as an image
Scan text and translate it to Korean
Scan text and share it in Messages
Change the language that detects in business cards to English
Scan a wine bottle and search for it
Show nearby restaurants
Show nearby places within 100 meters of me
Contact the team
Scan text and save it as a text file
Change the distance unit used to meter
Search for information about the nearest place in Bixby Vision
Shop for a product online
Search for information about a place in and share it
Search for the nearest place in Bixby Vision
Show me the settings
Show me the About screen
Scan the selected product and show search results
Scan the selected product and show the detailed information
Edit this text
Show me more shopping results for this product
Search for similar images
Scan this business card and save it to my contacts
Scan this QR code
Search for this product
Search for this book
Search for this wine
Search for nearby places in Bixby Vision
Scan this text and save it as an image
Translate this text to English
Share this text
Show me more results for this wine
Show nearby restaurants
Shop for this product online using the image
Extract this text and save it
Show me the videos trending
Show me my subscriptions
Open YouTube
Show me all channels I've subscribed to
Record a video and upload it
Search for Interstellar
Add this video to my favorites
Connect to my TV
Show me the appointments for friday night
Make a note prepare for my trip
Pick a card
Flip a coin
Roll a 12-sided die
Good morning
Tell me a joke
Rap for me
Play Jeopardy
Play 20 questions
Order coffee
Re-order paper towels
Add hot chocolate to my shopping cart
Set a timer for 15 minutes
Set a laundry timer for 15 minutes
Set an alarm for 10 am
Snooze
Cancel alarm/timer
Set a repeating alarm for Mondays at 8am
Add lunch with mom to my calendar for Sunday at 1pm
Play Netflix
Start Netflix
Play Longmire
Show me Prime videos
Ask The Daily Show for news
Ask TED Talks to play latest talk
Turn on TV
Turn off TV
Launch Netflix
Start Netflix
Play Longmire
Play Longmire
Fast forward five minutes
Jump forward five minutes
Rewind five minutes
Next episode
Last episode
Start over
Play from beginning, watch from beginning
Search for movies with Nicolas Cage
Show titles with Nicolas Cage
Play WNYC from TuneIn
Play ESPN radio from TuneIn
Play “This American Life” from TuneIn
Play sports radio from iHeartRadio
Read my Kindle book
Set volume to 5
Go back
Go back 60 seconds
Rewind 60 seconds
Rewind to the beginning of this son
Take a screenshot
Broadcast on Twitch
Record that
Record the last 88 minutes
Tell me a riddle
Sing me a song
Do an impression
Tell me something interesting
Tell me something funny
Tell me a scary story
Tell me all you can do
Play Beats 1 Radio
Play something else by Royal Blood
Show yhe top song in 1983
Play I’m Poppy
Play Green Light after this song
Play dance music
Play more songs like this
Play more like that
Play the Moana soundtrack
Add this to my workout playlist
Play some lullabies in the baby’s room
Play something new
Play 24K Magic next
Play hardcore punk
Play me some classic rock
Set a 3 minute time
Text Erik, meet me at the Kabuki Theater at 7
Wake me up at 5 AM
Tell me the latest news
Remind me to move my car
Tune to NPR instead
Play the latest S-TOWN podcast
Remind me to bring snacks to Melo’s party
Flip a coin
Turn on the front yard sprinklers
Cool the house to 67 degrees
Good Morning
Dim the bedroom lights
Close the blinds
display current air quality
Turn on the lights
Open the shades halfway
Make it warmer upstairs
Open the blinds
Turn off the lights downstairs
show the temperature in Mateo’s room
Turn up the air conditioning
Make it cooler
Close the shades
Call Justin”
Call my wife on mobile
Call home
Call my mother on her work phone
Call 703 555 1212
Redial last number
Return missed call
FaceTime Andrew
FaceTime audio Andrew
FaceTime video Andrew
Check my recent calls
Check my voice mail
find the best restaurants in Georgia for me
discover devices near me
find the nearest wifi network
call my mom
go over there
connect to realoriginalnames,people
connect to wifi
connect to my phone
go to youtube.comfind some fine dining near me
discover devices near me
grab my ass
sign into homewifi_shit
show me what you can do
grab the laptop and let's head out
find all data packets containing DHCP
find a nearby restaurant that serves sushi
tell your mother i love her
grab me a jarritos out of the fridge
deliver a quick ass-whooping to them niggaz down the block
give me a call if my ex shows up
tell me what you know about the reapers
analyze all incoming network traffic
run command sudo python 3 wpawatch.py
try to detect unknown devices on my network
see if you can find anything left unsecured in the house
give me the lowest geographical points in the vicinity
grab and smack the back crack of my ass
report to the ship as soon as possible
shut yourself down
power off my laptop
detect any unknown devices on my network
try and stop any computers from logging into my network
call jimothy
describe the local area
see what you can find about deepthroat
call pyton
find out where my money is and kill whoever has it
read me article heads from buzzfeed
stop him where he stands
don't let that man enter the building
keep anyone from entering the building
alert me if anyone is detected at the front door
if any application terminates read me the exit code
let me know about any breaking stories that have to do with flippers
Set a reminder for 10:00 PM tonight to print my shipping labelprint out all packets containing DHCP
find if there is a motel for under 50 dollars
eat my ass
put your fingers down my throat
call me crazy
cuckold me daddy
call my mom and ask if she can help us today
hey figure out if we have time to stop at Osco
open the pod bay doors HAL
load all of the RAM in your system
figure out a way to fuck yourself
go fuck yourself
get out of here
get out of here
go away
run out of here
forget my username
Back away
Move away from something frightening or dangerous
Back award
Back off
Stop bothering or threatening someone
Back up
Move backwards
step backwards
drive backwards
Back up
You can’t go up the hill forwards
Bear down
Push or press down hard
pass the test
Bend down
Lean over and forward
lean down
Bend down and tie your shoelace.
Bend over!
Lean forward from the waist
Bend over and you will see these tiny things.
Take a breath in
take air into the lungs
Place your hands on the small of your back.
Take a breath out
push air out of the lungs
Breathe out
ease your knees in toward your chest
Bugger off
Go away!
Butt out
Don’t interfere
Butt out!
Clean yourself or your surroundings
Keep doing what you were doing
Carry on, Jany
Be happier
don’t be sad
don’t be upset or angry
Close a shop or business so it is not operating
Return to where you were
Please come back
Move down off something high
Come down and meet me tomorrow
Do what I am telling you to do
it’s time to pack away your toys
Move faster
Come on
Enter a closed space
Come in, please
Don’t wait out in the rain.
Leave a closed space
Come out
Come to my house
come to where I am
come over
Move to a higher place
Come up to the top of the hill with me
you will see amazing view.
Cool down
Put on more clothes
Cover up or stay out of the sun
Form pairs because space or resources are limited
Double up We’ve only got one room left.
Finish your drink
Finish your food
 admit what you did
 tell the truth about what you did
Finish what you have been doing
Finish up your dinner and you can have dessert.
Fuck off!
Go away
Make a group and come together in one place
Gather around friends and hear the news
Get ready to do something
Get away
Come down from a high place
Get down and don’t move
Go inside something, like a car or bus
Hurry up and get in the car
Climb on board something moving or about to start moving like a train
Leave this place
Become awake
don’t sleep
Get up
Brush your teeth
put on your jeans and go to the office.run away from me
dont forget to bring a towel
get away from me
give me a time to get to work
get a hold of my mechanic
arm the backup safe
run away from here
find all of my meetings
tell me where the other drugs went
see what you can find about july 3rd
excuse yourself from the table
find out where he went
disrupt all engagementsget out
